Split advanced configuration settings into sections (#294)
signalfx/signalfx-dotnet-tracing: docs/advanced-config.md

    }
    ```

## Main settings

> We highly suggest to configure the settings below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following settings are common to most instrumentation scenarios:
```

| Setting | Description | Default |
|-|-|-|
| `SIGNALFX_ENV` | The value for the `deployment.environment` tag added to every span. |  |

> | `SIGNALFX_SERVICE_NAME` | Application's default service name. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_SERVICE_NAME` | The name of the application or service. |  |
```

> | `SIGNALFX_VERSION` | The application's version that will populate `version` tag on spans. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_VERSION` | The version of the application. When set, it populates the `version` tag on spans. |  |
```

## Global management settings

| Setting | Description | Default |
|-|-|-|
| `SIGNALFX_AZURE_APP_SERVICES` | Set to indicate that the profiler is running in the context of Azure App Services. | `false` |

> | `SIGNALFX_PROFILER_EXCLUDE_PROCESSES` | Sets the filename of executables the profiler cannot attach to. If not defined (default), the profiler will attach to any process. Supports multiple values separated with comma, for example: `MyApp.exe,dotnet.exe` |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_PROFILER_EXCLUDE_PROCESSES` | Sets the filename of executables the profiler cannot attach to. Supports multiple comma-separated values, for example: `MyApp.exe,dotnet.exe` |  |
```

> | `SIGNALFX_PROFILER_PROCESSES` | Sets the filename of executables the profiler can attach to. If not defined (default), the profiler will attach to any process. Supports multiple values separated with comma, for example: `MyApp.exe,dotnet.exe` |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_PROFILER_PROCESSES` | Sets the filename of executables the profiler can attach to. Supports multiple comma-separated values, for example: `MyApp.exe,dotnet.exe` |  |
```

How does this one and `SIGNALFX_PROFILER_EXCLUDE_PROCESSES`  interact? Can they be used simultaneously? What happens if a process is in both lists? Is any of these lists required?

> | `SIGNALFX_TRACE_CONFIG_FILE` | The file path of a JSON configuration file that will be loaded. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_CONFIG_FILE` | Path of the JSON configuration file. |  |
```

| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_ENABLED` | Enable to activate the tracer. | `true` |

## Global instrumentation settings

| Setting | Description | Default |
|-|-|-|
| `SIGNALFX_DISABLED_INTEGRATIONS` | Comma-separated list of disabled library instrumentations. The available integration ID values can be found [here](instrumented-libraries.md). |  |

> | `SIGNALFX_RECORDED_VALUE_MAX_LENGTH` | The maximum length an attribute value can have. Values longer than this are truncated. Values are completely truncated when set to 0, and ignored when set to a negative value. | `12000` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_RECORDED_VALUE_MAX_LENGTH` | The maximum length an attribute value can have. Values longer than this are truncated. Values are discarded entirely when set to 0, and ignored when set to a negative value. | `12000` |
```

What's the difference between ignored and truncated completely or discarded?

> | `SIGNALFX_TAGS` | Comma-separated list of key-value pairs to specify global span tags. For example: `"key1:val1,key2:val2"` |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_TAGS` | Comma-separated list of key-value pairs that specify global span tags. For example: `"key1:val1,key2:val2"` |  |
```

> | `SIGNALFX_TRACE_{0}_ENABLED` | Configuration pattern for enabling or disabling a specific library instrumentation. For example, in order to disable Kafka instrumentation, set `SIGNALFX_TRACE_Kafka_ENABLED=false` | `true` |

Reviewer: Might be convenient to link to a list of instrumentation names somewhere.

Author: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_{0}_ENABLED` | Configuration pattern for enabling or disabling a specific [library instrumentation](instrumented-libraries.md). For example, in order to disable Kafka instrumentation, set `SIGNALFX_TRACE_Kafka_ENABLED=false` | `true` |
```

| `SIGNALFX_ACCESS_TOKEN` | *organization access tokens* | See [here](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/admin/authentication-tokens/org-tokens.html) to learn how to obtain one. |
| `SIGNALFX_ENDPOINT_URL` | `https://ingest.<REALM>.signalfx.com/v2/trace` | Replace `<REALM>` with your realm name. To find your realm, open Splunk Observability Cloud, click Settings, and click on your user name. |

## Trace propagation settings

| Setting | Description | Default |
|-|-|-|
| `SIGNALFX_PROPAGATORS` | Comma-separated list of the propagators for the tracer. Available propagators are: `Datadog`, `B3`, `W3C`. The Tracer will try to execute extraction in the given order. | `B3` |

## Library-specific instrumentation settings

| Setting | Description | Default |
|-|-|-|

> | `SIGNALFX_HTTP_CLIENT_ERROR_STATUSES` | The application's client http statuses to set spans as errors by. | `400-599` |
> | `SIGNALFX_HTTP_SERVER_ERROR_STATUSES` | The application's server http statuses to set spans as errors by. | `500-599` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_HTTP_CLIENT_ERROR_STATUSES` | The application's client http statuses to set spans as errors by. | `400-599` |
| `SIGNALFX_HTTP_SERVER_ERROR_STATUSES` | The application's server http statuses to set spans as errors by. | `500-599` |
```

Description is unclear. How does one use these? Are admitted values in the form of `[1-9]{3}-[1-9]{3}` ranges?

Author: integers separated with `-`

Reviewer: And what's the use case? Which errors range can be captured for each? Shouldn't the default for client errors stop at `499`?

Author: I see that it is comma-seperated ranges of `[0-9]{3}` values...

e.g. `202,300-311,400-599` ...

Author: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_HTTP_CLIENT_ERROR_STATUSES` | Comma-separated list of HTTP client response statuses for which the spans are set as errors, for example: `300, 400-499`.  | `400-599` |
| `SIGNALFX_HTTP_SERVER_ERROR_STATUSES` | Comma-separated list of HTTP server response statuses for which the spans are set as errors, for example: `300, 400-599`. | `500-599` |
```

Reviewer: Love it!

> | `SIGNALFX_INSTRUMENTATION_ELASTICSEARCH_TAG_QUERIES` | Enable the tagging of a Elasticsearch command PostData as `db.statement`. It may introduce overhead for direct streaming users. | `true` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_INSTRUMENTATION_ELASTICSEARCH_TAG_QUERIES` | Enable the tagging of an Elasticsearch command PostData as `db.statement`. It might introduce overhead for direct streaming users. | `true` |
```

| `SIGNALFX_INSTRUMENTATION_MONGODB_TAG_COMMANDS` | Enable the tagging of a Mongo command BsonDocument as `db.statement`. | `true` |
| `SIGNALFX_INSTRUMENTATION_REDIS_TAG_COMMANDS` | Enable the tagging of a Redis command as `db.statement`. | `true` |

> | `SIGNALFX_LOGS_INJECTION` | Enable to inject trace IDs, span IDs, service name and environment into logs. This requires a compatible logger or manual configuration. | `false` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_LOGS_INJECTION` | Enable to inject trace IDs, span IDs, service name, and environment into logs. This requires a compatible logger or manual configuration. | `false` |
```

What's the list of compatible loggers? See, for instance, how our OTel Java docs deal with this: 

https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-java/blob/main/docs/correlating-traces-with-logs.md

Author: Updated your suggestion

| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_DELAY_WCF_INSTRUMENTATION_ENABLED` | Enable the updated WCF instrumentation that delays execution until later in the WCF pipeline when the WCF server exception handling is established. | `false` |

> | `SIGNALFX_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS` | Comma-separated map of HTTP header keys to tag name, that will be automatically applied as tags on traces. | `"x-my-header:my-tag,header2:tag2"` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_HEADER_TAGS` | Comma-separated map of HTTP header keys to tag names, automatically applied as tags on traces. | `"x-my-header:my-tag,header2:tag2"` |
```

| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_HTTP_CLIENT_EXCLUDED_URL_SUBSTRINGS` | Sets URLs that are skipped by the tracer. |  |
| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_KAFKA_CREATE_CONSUMER_SCOPE_ENABLED` | Enable to close consumer scope on method enter, and start a new one on method exit. | `true` |

> | `SIGNALFX_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_ENABLED` | Enable to add server trace information to HTTP response headers. | `true` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_ENABLED` | Enable to add server trace information to HTTP response headers. | `true` |
```

Shall we say that this enables the integration with Splunk RUM?

Author: Yup 👍 I look at Java and Python distros to check how they described it.

Reviewer: Could we create a simple page for this like those where we also explain which libraries are compatible?

Author: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_ENABLED` | Enable to add server trace information to HTTP response headers. It enables [Splunk Real User Monitoring (RUM)](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/observability/real-user-monitoring.html) integration when using ASP.NET and ASP.NET Core. | `true` |
```

Not sure if it is worth to create a page. Put if you think it will be better then we can create one.

Author: Addressed https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-dotnet-tracing/pull/294/commits/a9d2c8a30c6ec87bc3338c60cb05fb8ccf945c99

| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_ROUTE_TEMPLATE_RESOURCE_NAMES_ENABLED` | ASP.NET span and resource names are based on routing configuration if applicable. | `true` |

## Logging settings

The settings below can be used to configure the internal logging
of SignalFx Instrumentation for .NET.

| Setting | Description | Default |
|-|-|-|
| `SIGNALFX_DIAGNOSTIC_SOURCE_ENABLED` | Enable to generate troubleshooting logs with the `System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource` class. | `true` |

> | `SIGNALFX_FILE_LOG_ENABLED` | Enable file logging. This is enabled by default. | `true` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_FILE_LOG_ENABLED` | Enable file logging. | `true` |
```

> | `SIGNALFX_MAX_LOGFILE_SIZE` | The maximum size for tracer log files, in bytes. | `10 MB` |

Reviewer: The default doesn't seem expressed in bytes. :P What's the form for this string?

Author: I will check it

Author: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_MAX_LOGFILE_SIZE` | The maximum size for tracer log files, in bytes. | `245760` (10 MB) |
```

> | `SIGNALFX_STDOUT_LOG_ENABLED` | Enables `stdout` logging. This is disabled by default. | `false` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `SIGNALFX_STDOUT_LOG_ENABLED` | Enables `stdout` logging. | `false` |
```

| `SIGNALFX_STDOUT_LOG_TEMPLATE` | Configures `stdout` log template. See more about Serilog formatting options [here](https://github.com/serilog/serilog/wiki/Configuration-Basics#output-templates). | `"[{Level:u3}] {Message:lj} {NewLine}{Exception}{NewLine}"` |

> | `SIGNALFX_TRACE_DEBUG` | Enable to activate debugging mode for the tracer. | `false` |

Reviewer: We may want to explain in a `troubleshooting.md` file how to configure debug logging all these options.

Author: The most important configuration is described here: https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-dotnet-tracing/blob/next-ver/docs/troubleshooting.md#investigating-other-issues

Do you find it good enough?

Reviewer: Let's use that for now!

| `SIGNALFX_TRACE_LOG_DIRECTORY` | The directory of the .NET Tracer logs. Overrides the value in `SIGNALFX_TRACE_LOG_PATH` if present. | Linux: `/var/log/signalfx/dotnet/`<br>Windows: `%ProgramData%\SignalFx .NET Tracing\logs\` |

> | `SIGNALFX_TRACE_LOG_PATH` | (Deprecated) The path of the profiler log file. | Linux: `/var/log/signalfx/dotnet/dotnet-profiler.log`<br>Windows: `%ProgramData%\SignalFx .NET Tracing\logs\dotnet-profiler.log` |

Reviewer: If this one's deprecated, let's move it at the end of the table.

Author: Or maybe just remove it? 😄 WDYT? We can move it to `internal-config.md` as a deprecated configuration.

Reviewer: Agree!

Author: Yeah. The changelog already says that it is deprecated.

Author: Addressed 6126231d
